#
#
Looking at how to initialize a new git directory
use the commands git init and git status
Very interesting
#

Concept Map: init, add, staging area

We’ve introduced a few new concepts since we last revisited our concept map.

    git init
    git add
    git status
    staging area
    working directory
#

Reflect: Staging Area

Now that you’ve added a file to the staging area (or maybe multiple files!), go add the following question and your thoughts on it to your lesson_2_reflections file:

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

When you've updated your document, click "Next" and Caroline will go over how to commit the changes you’ve added to the staging area.
#
How to write a commit message

You're about to make your first commit to your reflections repository. When you do this, you'll need to write a commit message describing your changes. If you followed the instructions in the "Setting Up Your Workspace" video for your platform near the end of Lesson 1, the editor you chose will appear as soon as you run git commit and allow you to write a commit message. If you get an error message, you should try revisiting the instructions in Lesson 1 and make sure your text editor is set up properly.

You can also specify a commit message via the command line by running git commit -m "Commit message" instead of just git commit. It's still a good idea to get an editor set up, since this will make it easier to write long commit messages that fully describe the change.
#
Leave 'detached HEAD' state

Right now, your HEAD should still be 'detached' from Lesson 1 when you checked out an old commit. To fix that, run the command git checkout master. You'll learn more about what this command does later this lesson.
Fix the delay bug

Now, if you were following along with Caroline, you may have already fixed the bug in the Asteroids repository. If not, go ahead and make the change and add it to the staging area now.

In game.js find the statement if (this.delayBeforeBullet <= 0) { (should be on line 423). On the next line, insert this.delayBeforeBullet = 10;
Stage your change

Then stage your change by adding the game.js file to the staging area. If you’re having trouble remembering how to stage changes, use this video as a refresher.
Commit your change

Now, go ahead and commit this change. Make sure to use a meaningful commit message! If you have trouble remember how to commit, refer to this video.

When you’re finished committing your change, click “Next”.

#

Reflect: Commit Size

Now that you’ve committed changes using the staging area, go add the following question and your thoughts on it to your lesson_2_reflections file:

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

You may also want to commit your changes to the file. When you're ready to move on, click "Next" and Sarah will go over a concept called branching.

#


Reflect: When to Use Branches

Now that you’ve learned how to create a branch in Git, go add the following question and your thoughts on it to your reflections file:

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

You may also want to commit your changes to the file. When you're ready to move on, click "Next" to hear a perspective from an experienced Git user.

#

branch are useful for many purposes especially to do experiments to commit new fixes
#

Reflect: Merging Two Branches

Now that you’ve learned how to use Git to merge branches together, go add the following question and your thoughts on it to your reflections file:

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

You may also want to commit your changes to the file. When you're ready to move on, click "Next" and Sarah will explain why this automatic merge process won't always be possible and what happens instead.

merging branches

#
Reflect: Automatic vs. Manual Merging

Now that you’ve learned when Git will not be able to automatically merge branches, and what happens when it can’t, go add the following question and your thoughts on it to your reflections file:

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

You may also want to commit your changes to the file. When you're ready to move on, click "Next" to hear from Jeffrey again about how he uses some of the tools you've learned about in this lesson.

